# Contributing

Interested in helping out on the Warewulf project? Join us on our [mailing list](https://groups.google.com/a/lbl.gov/forum/#!forum/warewulf) or [Slack](warewulf.slack.com) and let us know how your interested in helping! (Ask for access to Slack via our mailing list!)

## Source Code

Our development model is completely open, and downloading our current working source code is available to the public using GitHub:

```
$ git clone https://github.com/warewulf/warewulf3.git
```

## Copyright and licensing

**MODIFICATION OF EXISTING SOURCE FILES:** Any substantial changes/patches to an existing source file may warrant the addition of the contributor(s)' copyright and/or license to the source file preamble. Any contribution(s) that do not specify additional copyright and/or license terms will be subject to the same copyright and license conditions set forth in the primary [LICENSE](https://warewulf.lbl.gov/svn/trunk/common/LICENSE) file for that package.

**CREATION OF NEW SOURCE FILES:** Any file that is created new and contributed to the project will include the primary maintainers' default source file preamble and may also include the copyright and/or license of the contributor(s). Any contribution(s) that do not specify additional copyright and/or license terms will be subject to the same copyright and license conditions set forth in the primary [LICENSE](https://warewulf.lbl.gov/svn/trunk/common/LICENSE) file for that package.

**PATCH/CONTRIBUTION ACCEPTANCE:** Any contribution(s) that include additional copyright and/or license terms will be subject to review by the primary package maintainers (i.e., LBNL Technology Transfer Department) for approval. Contribution(s) which do not receive the necessary approval will be removed from the project and the contributor(s) notified of the reason(s) for rejection.

## Standard source file preamble (copyright and license)

This preamble is to be included in every source file.

```
Warewulf Copyright (c) 2001-2003 Gregory M. Kurtzer

Warewulf Copyright (c) 2003-2013, The Regents of the University of
California, through Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (subject to
receipt of any required approvals from the U.S. Dept. of Energy).
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

(1) Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

(2) Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

(3) Neither the name of the University of California, Lawrence Berkeley
National Laboratory, U.S. Dept. of Energy nor the names of its contributors
may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

You are under no obligation whatsoever to provide any bug fixes, patches,
or upgrades to the features, functionality or performance of the source
code ("Enhancements") to anyone; however, if you choose to make your
Enhancements available either publicly, or directly to Lawrence Berkeley
National Laboratory, without imposing a separate written license agreement
for such Enhancements, then you hereby grant the following license: a
non-exclusive, royalty-free perpetual license to install, use, modify,
prepare derivative works, incorporate into other computer software,
distribute, and sublicense such enhancements or derivative works thereof,
in binary and source code form.
```

## Submitting patches

Send all patches via a Pull Request for approval.

## Commit access

If you wish to gain commit access, please ask on Slack or via GitHub issues.
